# Computer-simulation-of-high-intensity-laser-interaction-with-nanoclusters
Object of research is the new promising area of interaction of the laser with nanoplasma. Due to the complexity of the theoretical description of many processes, it is studied either experimentally or with the help of computer simulation. But even computer modeling of the required quality requires a lot of calculated resources. Often, the experimenter needs to quickly assess the expected interaction parameters of the laser and nanoplasma. In this paper, a set of programs is presented, which allows a rough but quick assessment of such parameters of laser interaction with matter as the force acting from the laser on the electronic subsystem, as the force acting from the ionic subsystem to the electronic, as amplitude, speed and frequency of oscillations in linear and nonlinear modes, estimate the degree of linearity of the interaction of a laser and a substance. The basis was chosen the simplest and widely known model. The paper presents its implementation, special attention is paid to its properties such as speed of work, accuracy of calculations, as well as ease of distribution, code validation for third-party users, the user can easily understand the code and correct it to fit your parameters. The project can be downloaded from the open source repository. A set of programs has been developed for evaluating the interaction of a laser with a nanoplasm. The result of the work is in the form of an open source package that is available for download at the link. The program code allows to estimate the amplitudes and speeds of oscillations of the electronic subsystem depending on the parameters of the plasma and the parameters of the laser pulse. Based on the code, it is possible to estimate the strength of the interaction between the electron and ion subsystem of the cluster and estimate the degree of nonlinearity of oscillations. 
